# Configuring ArgoCD using Operators in a Kubernetes Cluster

## Configure ArgoCD Operator 

To Configure ArgoCD using Operator follow below step or navigate to `https://operatorhub.io/operator/argocd-operator`.

```sh
curl -sL https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager/releases/download/v0.25.0/install.sh | bash -s v0.25.0
```
Install the operator by running the following command

```sh
kubectl create -f https://operatorhub.io/install/argocd-operator.yaml
```
This Operator will be installed in the "operators" namespace and will be usable from all namespaces in the cluster.

After install, watch your operator come up using next command.
```sh
$ kubectl get csv -n operators
```
To use it, checkout the custom resource definitions (CRDs) introduced by this operator to start using it.

## Install ArgoCD Controller as Pod 
Here is definition file, make a copy of this in the control plane of K8s cluster with a filename of `argo-cd.yml`.
```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: example-argocd
  labels:
    example: basic
spec: {}
```
Now, run the command `kubectl apply -f argo-cd.yml`

Once successfully executed, run `kubectl get pods` and `kubectl get svc` to see the pods and services created for argo-cd controller. 

## Accessing ArgoCD controller UI

Now, to access ArgoCD controller UI on our browser, we need to configure to change the service type of `example-argo-cd-server` from ClusterIP to NodePort. 

Run command `kubectl edit svc example-argo-cd-server` and find the `type: ClusterIP` and edit to `type: NodePort`

Now we need to find IP's address and port 
// todo

## Getting ID and Password 
So, ID is admin and password and accessed by using the below command 
```sh
kubectl get secrets example-argocd-cluster -o yaml
```
password is at admin.password in data block. Copy it. 

Since K8s secrets are base64 encoded we need to decode it

Use the below command to get decode password

```sh
echo <copied-password-here> | base64 -d 
```
Copy the generated output excluding the last `%` characters. This is our password. 


